1984


The actual technologies improvement and the progress of science leads
to the developpement of over watching systems.
Trans national computer science firms devlops global softawre to
analyze internet trafic.
In the book 1984 published in 1949, George orwell discribes a
great britain few years after a nuclear war between East and West
who has been controled by a totalitarian power based on overwatching
technologies impersonated by the caracter of Big brother. 
The propaganda of the government explain that Big brother will 
restric your liberty sure but leads to a safe city/world

Each people are monitored by a glass square on the wall at there home
and by cams in the cities that are tracking their activites and behaviour.
Your acts will get you a score that will give you benefits if the 
behaviour is judge good by the regime and it will leads to sanctions
is you are doing bad things according to the system.

The actual GAFAM followed by intellingence services of high Gross domestic
product are working in accord with these words. Our numerical footprint is
tracked down and stocked in huge data centers.
Have you ever been on google maps and been finding out the rush our?
how does google can now these info? By simply tracking the global gps
position and registering it.

They also reistery your onlines research and what you are looking
for on the internet through your dns query. But also your personnal
informations through registration form to new accounts and cookies.
They are selling these informations to publicity compagnies that
will pay to show you ads. Then they will show you aimed ads.
You are now a product.

You can conceal this by saying "I have nothing to hide".
Edward Snowden who worked for the NSA in the project prism
said "saying that you don't care about privacy beacause you have
nothing to hide it's like saying you don't care about freedom of
speech beacause you have nothing to say".

China is pushing the idea further by testing social credit based on
facial recognicion with cctv, dns tracking and microphone listening.
Your mobile phone is a direct door for them to listen to you.
Not being complesent with the system, saying that the leader is wrong,
or comitting depreceated acts will cost you social credit that will
leads to restriction like the impossibility to leave the territory,
malus to find a job or worth: prinson or torture.

in conclusion we saw that the technologies think by george Orwell are
today, more than ever, actuals.

We can fight against this by encrypting our data, use open source
alternatives. In general stop trading our freedom for security and
comfort.
